import Callout from 'nextra-theme-docs/callout'

# Creating Splits

<Callout emoji="ðŸ”€">
  Looking to integrate with your own product or contracts? Check out the
  [SDK](/sdk) or [Smart Contracts](/smartcontracts/overview) sections.
</Callout>

To get started head to [split.new](https://split.new) and add each
[Recipient](/core-concepts#recipient)'s address (ENS or hex) and their
corresponding share. Since Recipients don't need to withdraw for themselves, a
Recipient can be any payable Ethereum addressâ€”user wallets, smart contracts, and
other Splits are all acceptable.

![New Split Recipients](/new-split-recipients.png)

You can also upload a CSV if you prefer. Lines should be comma-separated, with
each line containing a single Recipient and their corresponding share (also
comma-separated). Hit "Validate list" to make sure there are no errors.

There are two additional parameters you can (optionally) modify: the
Distribution Incentive, and the Split Type.

### Distribution Incentive

This allows Splits to be distributed automatically, without you or any of the
Recipients having to worry about it. The incentive is the percent of the balance
rewarded to whoever distributes the balance. This creates an arbitrage
opportunity (when the cost to distribute is less than the incentive multiplied
by the balance), which causes bots & third parties to automatically distribute
balances for Recipients.

![New Mutable Split](/new-split-distributorfee.png)

Once you've filled out the Recipients section, you'll be able to see when this
Split's balance is expected to be distributed (i.e., when it becomes profitable
for a bot/third party to call the distribute function). If you're not sure what
to use, we recommend leaving it at the default setting of 1.00%.
[Learn more](/core-concepts#distributor-fee)

### Split Type

Splits can either be Immutable (the default option) or Mutable. Once deployed,
Immutable Splits can never be changed by anyone. Mutable Splits, on the other
hand, can be changed only by the Controller. The Controller has the ability to
modify the Recipients and Distribution Incentive, and even transfer control to a
new account or remove the Controller entirely (thereby making the Split
Immutable). The Controller can be any account (EOA, multisig, smart contract
with custom logic, etc). [Learn more](/core-concepts#mutable-split)

![New Mutable Split](/new-split-mutable.png)

Keep in mind that larger Splits require more gas. Mutable Splits will also
require slightly more gas to deploy. Gas estimates can be found
[here](/appendices/gas-estimates)
