import Bleed from 'nextra-theme-docs/bleed'

# Withdrawing Funds

Regardless of how many Splits you’re receiving from, or how frequently those
Splits earn income, it only takes a single transaction to transfer _all of your
balances_ to your wallet. You can do this at your leisure, whenever gas prices
are low or you just want to cash out.

![Withdraw flow](/withdraw-flow.svg)

Once a Split you receive from has been distributed, you'll see your withdrawable
balance in the nav menu at the top of the screen. This withdrawable balance you
see comprises _all the Splits_ you receive from. If you only have ERC20 tokens
available to withdraw, you may see "$0.00" in this dropdown if we can't
determine the token price. Click on the dropdown to see the actual balances for
each token.

![Overview menu item](/withdraw_indicator.png)

After clicking on the dropdown, you'll see all your balances and can select the
ones you wish to withdraw. Hit the "withdraw" button in the top right, and once
the transaction has been confirmed you'll see that those funds have been
transferred to your wallet and your balance within Splits has been reset. If you
have any "pending" balances (i.e., Splits you receive from have balances which
have not been distributed), those will show up here, too. If you wish, you can
distribute those pending balances before withdrawing.

![Overview page](/withdraw-balances.png)

## Withdrawing For Another Account

Since Recipients in a Split can be any Ethereum address, including smart
contracts to which nobody holds the private keys, anyone can withdraw balances
on behalf of other Recipients. When you do this, you're effectively paying the
gas needed to send the funds to their wallet.

Just navigate to the account's detail page—either by searching or clicking on it
from the list of Recipients—then select the balances you wish to withdraw and
hit "withdraw". This will transfer these balances to the _account's address_,
not your own. By withdrawing "for" another account, you're just paying the gas
needed to send them their funds.

![Withdraw for an account](/withdraw_account.png)

If you're a developer looking to incorporate withdrawals from 0xSplits into into
your own app, just call the [`withdraw`](/smartcontracts/SplitMain#withdraw)
function on `SplitMain`. You can see if the account in question has a balance by
calling the `getETHBalance` and `getERC20Balance` functions on `SplitMain` as
well. The [SDK](/sdk) makes this easy.

If you're having trouble with this, jump in our
[Discord](https://chat.0xsplits.xyz/) and drop us a note in the `user-support`
channel.

## Why Must You Withdraw?

In other words, once the balance of a Split has been distributed, why aren't the
funds automatically showing up in your wallet? This is because the withdraw flow
follows a
[pull model](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/pull_over_push.html)
(i.e., you need to _pull_ your funds from 0xSplits into your account). It's
designed this way for a few reasons.

First, the pull model is far more reliable and secure, making it the
[recommended approach](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/development-recommendations/general/external-calls/#favor-pull-over-push-for-external-calls)
in Solidity. Pushing funds isn't recommended since it's more likely to fail and
it increases the chance of hitting problems with the gas limit. Additionally,
the push model reduces composability since contracts with hard gas limits
wouldn't be able to send funds to a Split.

Second, the pull model increases gas-efficiency for the Recipients. Since all
your Splits deposit into the same place, you can collect all your distributed
balances in a single transaction. The longer you wait to withdraw your funds,
the more funds pile up, and the more gas you save. This same concept applies to
Splits themselves—instead of paying gas each time a Split receives funds (i.e.,
from Seaport, Zora, etc), all funds can be distributed at once, drastically
reducing gas consumption and ultimately sending more money to the Recipients.

If you're just looking to do a one-time split where gas efficiency,
composability, and manual labor/time don't matter, you may consider using
[disperse.app](https://disperse.app/) or another multisend contract that will
"push" funds to the recipients. However, whoever initiates that transaction will
need to pay the gas to do so and the undoubted wrath of the group should a
mistake be made. If you're doing multiple manual distributions to the same group
of recipients, you're better off using a Split. Check out the
[Alternative Solutions](/appendices/alternative-solutions) page for more
options.
