import Callout from 'nextra-theme-docs/callout'

# Core Concepts

### Split

A Split is a smart contract (SC) that receives and distributes incoming funds. Each
Split has an address, a set of Recipients, a balance, and a Distributor Fee.
Just like any other payable smart contract, funds can be sent to the Split's
address from any other externally owned account (EOA) or SC. Optionally, a Split
can be [mutable](/core-concepts#mutable-split), allowing it to be modified by
the Controller.

### Recipient

A Recipient is an EOA or SC that earns a portion of the Split's income. A
Recipient may be any valid Ethereum address, including other Splits. Recipients
do not need direct control of the account, since funds can be withdrawn for the
Recipient by a third party.

### Balance

Each Split has a balance that increases whenever income is received. This
balance must be distributed before it can be withdrawn by the Recipients.

### Distributor Fee

This is the portion of a Split's balance that's earned in exchange for
distributing the balance. This fee incentivizes third parties to pay the gas
needed to distribute a Split's balance, while making the distribution cost borne
by Recipients. This fee may be set to 0 for manual or progressive distributions.

### Distributor

The Distributor is any account (EOA or SC) that distributes a Split's balance
for the Recipients, and earns the Distributor Fee for doing so. This
architecture allows the gas needed to distribute funds to be borne in a flat or
progressive manner, making it in aggregate more gas efficient for the
Recipients.

### Withdraw

Accounts with a positive balance can withdraw their funds across all of the
Splits they receive from in a single transaction. A third party may withdraw for
any account, enabling smart contracts who have no user-controlled private keys
to still receive their funds.

### Mutable Split

A Mutable Split operates just like a normal Split, with the only difference
being that it can be modified in the future. Only the Controller, which is set
during Split creation, can modify the Split. The Controller can be any valid
address (EOA, multisig, SC with custom logic, etc), and has the ability to
modify the Recipients and Distributor Fee, transfer control of the Split to a
new Controller, or make the Split immutable (removing the Controller entirely).
A Mutable Split can be made immutable, but immutable Splits can never become
mutable.

<Callout emoji="ðŸ‘¾">
  We're excited about the idea of building smart contracts that can modify
  Splits based on other onchain state. Please reach out if you're interested in
  this â€“ we'd like to explore this concept & support you however we can!
</Callout>
