# Withdrawing balances

![Flow of funds - withdraw](./img/withdraw_highlighted_step.png)

Withdrawing is the process of transferring a balance from 0xSplits to a
recipient's wallet. Regardless of how many contracts someone earns from, or how
frequently those contracts receive income, it only takes a single transaction to
transfer _all of those balances_ to their wallet. Anyone can do this at their
leisure, whenever gas prices are low or they just want to cash out.

## Withdrawing for yourself

After connecting your wallet you'll see your total balances in USD in the top
left corner of the app. If your balance shows $0.00, that is either because you
have no balances to withdraw or because we're unable to determine a USD price
for your balances. Clicking on your balance will open your account view.

![Open your account view](./img/withdraw_open_dialog.gif)

Just select all the balances you wish to withdraw, hit withdraw, and the funds
will be transferred from your balance in 0xSplits to your wallet. If you have
any "pending" balances (i.e., contracts you earn from that have balances waiting
to be distributed), those will show up here as well. You may wish to distribute
those pending balances before withdrawing (or just wait for a bot to distribute
them if there's a bounty!).

You can also select which balances to withdraw by clicking on "My account" in
the sidebar and then looking at the Earnings section on the right.

![Your account earnings](./img/withdraw_earnings.png)

## Withdrawing for another account

There may be instances when you wish to withdraw on behalf of another account.
When you do this, you're effectively paying the gas needed to "push" the funds
from 0xSplits to their wallet. Anyone can withdraw on behalf of another account
at any time.

To do this, just navigate to the account's detail page (either by searching or
clicking on it from the list of recipients) and in the Earnings section select
the balances you wish to withdraw. Remember that this will transfer these
balances to the _account's address_, not your own. By withdrawing "for" another
account, you're just paying the gas needed to send them their funds.

![Withdraw for an account](./img/withdraw_other_account.gif)

## Why must you withdraw? REMOVE

In other words, once the balance of a Split has been distributed, why aren't the
funds automatically showing up in your wallet? This is because the withdraw flow
follows a
[pull model](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/pull_over_push.html)
(i.e., you need to _pull_ your funds from 0xSplits into your account). It's
designed this way for a few reasons.

First, the pull model is far more reliable and secure, making it the
[recommended approach](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/development-recommendations/general/external-calls/#favor-pull-over-push-for-external-calls)
in Solidity. Pushing funds isn't recommended since it's more likely to fail and
it increases the chance of hitting problems with the gas limit. Additionally,
the push model reduces composability since contracts with hard gas limits
wouldn't be able to send funds to a Split.

Second, the pull model increases gas-efficiency for the Recipients. Since all
your Splits deposit into the same place, you can collect all your distributed
balances in a single transaction. The longer you wait to withdraw your funds,
the more funds pile up, and the more gas you save. This same concept applies to
Splits themselvesâ€”instead of paying gas each time a Split receives funds (i.e.,
from Seaport, Zora, etc), all funds can be distributed at once, drastically
reducing gas consumption and ultimately sending more money to the Recipients.

If you're just looking to do a one-time split where gas efficiency,
composability, and manual labor/time don't matter, you may consider using
[disperse.app](https://disperse.app/) or another multisend contract that will
"push" funds to the recipients. However, whoever initiates that transaction will
need to pay the gas to do so and the undoubted wrath of the group should a
mistake be made. If you're doing multiple manual distributions to the same group
of recipients, you're better off using a Split. Check out the
[Alternative Solutions](/appendices/alternative-solutions) page for more
options.
